So let's go ahead and practice using
the Amazon Elastic File System Service.
So let's create our file system
and here we can give it an optional name,
but I'll leave it empty and we have
to choose a VPC where we want to connect to our file system.
So we'll leave it as the default VPC as well,
and we could just click on create and be done.
But I wanna show you the options.
So let's click on Customize.
So here again, we'll leave the name empty and optional.
Next, we need to choose a file system type.
So we have two options.
We have regional, which gives you a file system
within the region across multiple availability zones,
which gives you very high availability
and durability of the data.
But if you need to reduce costs, you could use
the one zone option, in which case you have
to choose one specific availability zone.
And this is going to be good for development environments
but not good for production environment
because if that availability zone becomes unavailable,
then your data will be unaccessible.
So definitely, you want to use regional
in production settings and we'll use regional right now
for this hands-on.
Next we can enable or disabled automatic backups,
but it's recommended to keep it enabled.
Next we have lifecycle management.
So this is to move data
across different storage tiers to save costs.
So it turns out that you can transition
into infrequent access or archive and then back to standard.
So we're saying that hey, if a file hasn't been accessed
for 30 days, but you can obviously customize this,
if a file hasn't been accessed to 30 days, then move it
to the infrequent access storage tier
and it's going to be cheaper
for you except when you access the file.
But the likelihood is that
after 30 days, you're rarely accessing the file.
And then if the file was not accessed, for example,
in 90 days since the last access, then moving
into the archive, which is going to be even cheaper
as a storage class.
And then for example, you say
that here when the file is accessed the first time,
so on first access, transition back into standard
because for example, we assume that it's going
to be reused a lot more.
So this is called a lifecycle management.
So we can keep this on as is encryption.
We leave it enable, that's perfect.
And then we have performance settings.
So for performance settings we have throughput mode
and you should have three options.
So, enhanced is just a category
to regroup, elastic and provisions.
But so you have elastic throughput mode,
you have provisioned throughput mode as well
as bursting throughput mode.
So let's start with bursting.
So bursting is a way for you to have the throughput scale
with the amount of storage you're actually using
and going a little bit over,
that's why it's called bursting.
So if you have one gigabytes,
you get a throughput based on one gigabyte.
If you have one terabyte, you get higher throughput
because you use more storage.
Then there was enhanced mode.
And now elastic is recommended, which is saying,
Hey, regardless of the size of your EFS file system,
we're going to give you all the I/O you need
and we'll scale automatically
and you're going to only pay for what you use.
So this is best when you have a workload
with unpredictable I/O where for example, you can scale
from zero megabytes per second
to a hundred megabytes per second in no time.
This is why it is the recommended mode
because it doesn't require for you
to think about any settings.
And then the last one, so we have bursting elastic,
and the last one is provisioned.
This is when you know
in advance the throughput you're going to be needing.
So this is the provision mode.
So you say,
Hey, I will need 100 megabytes per second for sure.
And then you also have a bursting limit
of 300 megabytes per second.
And because you provision throughput
in advance, you're going to pay for it in advance.
So elastic is the recommended setting.
And then if you look at the additional settings,
so we have general purpose and max I/O.
So in the case of elastic, you get the I/O you need based
on the performance you need.
So general purpose is the only option for performance mode,
but if you use bursting or if you use provisions,
then you have the option between two settings.
So general purpose, which is giving you high performance
and latency sensitive applications.
So that means the latency is very low,
but if you want to get a maximum amount
of I/O mode, then this is for highly paralyzed workloads
and you can tolerate higher latency.
So at the expense of a higher latency, you
also get more I/O.
This is good in a big data type of setting,
but the best recommended setting now for AWS is
to use enhanced with general purpose and elastic.
Okay? So that's it for the options.
Hopefully it's not too confusing.
I don't love the fact that under enhanced there is elastic
and provision, it's really just three options we have.
We have bursting, elastic and provision,
and that's what you should remember for the exam.
Okay, let's click on Next now.
Next we have the network access settings
and they're very important, we have to choose a VPC.
I'll choose the default VPC and then the mount targets.
And because we've chosen a regional type
of EFS file system, we have free AZ available to us.
So each AZ is going to be assigned to a subnet.
I'll leave it as is, which is the default subnets.
The IP is automatic and we need to assign a security group.
And so we need to go ahead
and create a specific security group for my EFS file system.
So I'll go into the EC2 console and then I will go
into Security Groups.
I will create a security group
and I will call it sg-efs-demo.
And I will call this one EFS Demo SG.
For now, we will not have any inbound rules.
I'll click on Create Security Group and we cannot have this.
So EFS demo is good enough.
Okay, so my EFS demo is created successfully
and to have it appear here, what I need
to do is to refresh the page.
So we'll start all over,
but the settings are the basic ones,
the default ones that we come next.
And now I can remove these security groups
and choose the EFS demo security group
that I have created from before.
Okay, we're good.
So now we have done all the network access configuration.
I will click on Next.
We have a file system policy that is optional
and we will not touch it right now.
This is pretty advanced and we don't need it right now.
So I will click on Next.
And here we can review
and create all the file system settings.
So we're happy with that.
And when we're done, we just click on Create.
Now my file system is creating and I will get back
to you when it is created.
My file system is now available and I can go in it
and see that the fact that there is six kilobytes of size
that is being used right now.
And when you have a EFS file system, you only pay
for the storage you use, so right now my cost are zero.
So this is good, this is created.
And now we want to mount this onto EC2 instances.
Therefore, you know the next step we're going
to create EC2 instances.
So let's launch some instance.
And I will name this one Instance A,
because we will launch it in subnet of AZA.
So we are going to run Amazon Linux version 2.
We're good to go, we'll use the t2.micro
because it's free tier eligible.
We will disable the key pair.
We'll just do EC2 instance connect to connect
to our EC2 instance.
For network settings, I will leave it as is
and there will be a new security group created
with these rules right here.
So allow SSH access from anywhere, which is good.
Then we have eight gigabytes of GP2 storage.
But now because we want to configure the storage
of the EC2 instance
into Amazon EFS, we can actually now do it
from within the EC2 console, which is very exciting.
So let me show you how to do it.
Before we had to run some commands.
So there are 0 x file systems and you do edit
and it says that you cannot add a file system
before you choose to select a subnet.
So we scroll back up, we go to Network Settings, we Edit it,
and in subnet I'm going to choose eu-west-1a.
So now that my subnet is created, I can go back
into file systems.
And as you can see, I can add an EFS or an FSx file system.
So we'll add an EFS file system,
then we'll click on Add Shared File System.
It's going to be linked to my EFS right here.
The mount point is /mnt/efs/fs1. This is good enough for us.
This is going to automatically create
and attach security groups for us, which is amazing.
And then it's automatically going
to mount shared file system
by attaching the required user data scripts.
So these in the past we had
to run ourselves onto the EC2 instance manually
or create our own user data script.
But now this is done for us
by the EC2 console, which is really nice.
Okay, let's create one instance and launch it.
Okay, so this instance is launched.
I can go view all instances
and I'm going to launch a new one.
Okay, I will call this one Instance B.
We'll have Amazon Linux 2, again to make it quick, I'm going
to proceed without a key pair, I will go into eu-west-1b.
I can just select the security group of launch-wizard-2
that was created just from before.
And then again, we need to edit this
and add a file system of type EFS
and we'll use the same file system as before
and the same mount points
and we'll leave these options on as well.
So we're good. Let's launch that instance.
And now let's have a look
at the interesting stuff that has happened.
So I'm going to just do instant state equals running
and refresh this until I see both of my instances.
So now they're both running.
And the interesting thing is
that if we go into the EFS console
and go to the network tab, as we can see now,
each availability zone now has multiple security groups.
So we have the EFS demo we created from before,
but also the efs-sg-1 and efs-sg-2, which were auto created
by the EC2 console for us and attached
into our EFS file system.
So if I go into my EC2 instances
and then security group right here, I can look at
for example, this efs-sg-2, look at the inbound rules.
And as you see, it allows the protocol NFS on port 2049
and the source of it, if we have a look
at the inbound rules himself, the source
of this is this security group
and that security group is the one
that is attached into my EC2 instance, instance B.
So this allows my instance B to access the EFS file system
because that security group right here called efs-sg-2
is attached into my EFS file system.
So all the setup is done by AWS for us, which is truly nice.
So now if I go into one of these instance, we're going
to connect using EC2 instance connect
on this tab, and then I will also do the exact same thing
by connecting to instance B over EC2 instance connect.
So now I can, for example, verify the fact that yes,
in ls /mnt/efs/fs1/ there is an EFS file system
and now we need to create files in it.
So to make it simple, I will elevate my right
and type sudo SU
and then I can do echo "hello world"
into the /mnt/efs/fs1/hello.txt.
So we've created that file named hello.txt.
And if I do cat and then this entire file name right here,
as you can see it says hello world.
So this file has been created into my EFS file system
from this EC2 instance, which is an eu-west-1a.
But now if I go into my second EC2 instance and do LS
and then the same file system, so I look for files in it,
as you can see, we also see this hello.txt file in it.
And if I do cat and then cat the file, hello.txt,
it says hello world as well.
So as you can see, the EFS file system is indeed mounted
as a network drive onto both my EC2 instances
and they are in different AZs
and they share it the same EFS.
So that's amazing and that's a different kind of storage
that you had the demo of it right now.
So that's it for the EFS demo. That was pretty complete.
Now to just clean it up, what you can do
is you can terminate these two EC2 instances.
So you go here and you terminate them.
And something else you can do is you can go
into the EFS file system, you can delete it
by entering the file system ID,
and then when everything is deleted, you can go ahead
into your security groups
and delete the extra security groups
that have been created during this demo.
Okay, that's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.